[Music]
so today I wanted to start with a story
uh about 10 15 years ago in the height
of my base jumping career I taught my my
romantic partner at the time my life
partner to jump off cliffs with a
parachute
[Laughter]
that's not that's a non-loaded situation
right there yeah yeah very very
non-loaded we could say
um and also she was the first person
that I ever taught to base jump
oh wow I had done some coaching and
skydiving and I'd informally mentored
people but I'd never been with somebody
from
okay here's step one here's how you
start here's how you pack here's the
body position here's everything and uh
did that within the context of a
relationship and all of the stuff that
happens within a romantic relationship
things like don't tell me what to do but
no no it's your parachute no no don't
tell me what to do
no let me just do everything for you no
no
um
it was honestly a really wonderful
experience for both of us to have had
and also there was a lot of stuff that
we moved through in it the thing that
characterized the experience most for me
was which is what we're going to talk
about in this episode was helplessness
that feeling the first time watching her
make that first jump and to to add to
this she also did uh it's hard to kind
of describe this but so base jumping is
an acronym b-a-s-e building antenna span
like Bridges and Earth Cliffs and she
did her first four jumps from each of
those different objects which is not
something people normally do they
normally train from a bridge for a long
time before they move to something more
dangerous like a cliff
so for each of these first four jumps in
like four different countries
uh we were just like both very puckered
and
for me yeah there's just this deep
feeling of this deep experience of
moving with helplessness and one of the
things that I learned was the more that
I leaned into just allowing myself to
feel the helplessness the less I got in
her way
and the more she was able to take
ownership of the experience yeah and
ultimately the less helpless I ended up
feeling as she started to develop her
skills and abilities
yeah I just wanna I wanna say hey if
you're if you're a mother listening to
this uh
that's a huge key if you're a father
listening to this this is that's a huge
key that that feeling of
allowing helplessness and raising your
kids yeah
all right
right and that became a two-way thing in
our relationship because I had a much
higher risk tolerance than she had in
jumping and so she moved through a lot
of the okay well
how do I love this person across the
across the risk Continuum
yeah too
where there's I can't control what's
going to happen in the next 15 seconds
there's nothing I can do about it but I
but there are things I can do there are
ways I can show up
so yeah yeah I just want to get in let's
just dive into helplessness and talk
about that today okay sounds great cool
yeah okay so so let's start by talking
about what is it
yeah
the way I think about it is helplessness
is a component of fear
so a lot of people will ask me what's
the difference between fear and
helplessness and it's
I don't think of it that way I would say
that I don't know any fear that doesn't
have some part of it that feels helpless
and I don't know
any helplessness that isn't fear so I I
think of it more as like an ingredient
of fear and
there are some things where we feel it
deeply like almost 100 percent helpless
so that would be you know getting
sideswiped by a car
being overpowered physically
situations where there was just this
deep feeling of helplessness and and
there's some fear and then there's
things like am I going to make this
presentation a good presentation in
front of my managers which might have
fear in it but and it has a little bit
of helplessness there's like oh I can't
control what they think of me or if they
had coffee that morning or if they
exercised
um but there's a much smaller component
of helplessness inside of that kind of a
fear so I think of it as a component of
fear and and I would say the most potent
like I would say it's like the cayenne
pepper of fear
right yeah so so as a component of fear
how would you describe it what it what
is it like what is the what is that
particular flavor of fear it is the
absence of control or the the feeling
the feel it may not be true that you
have no control over the situation but
the feeling is that you have no control
over this issue the feeling is like it
is
yeah uh an experience of like oh there
is nothing that I can do to change the
outcome and it's an outcome I really
don't want
it's that combination
yeah okay so
so we've got it as an ingredient of fear
what is it not what are what what ways
might people describe helplessness that
we're not referring to here
yeah I would say some folks would feel
helpless they'd say they feel helpless
when they feel stuck
and and you may feel helpless and stuck
but you may also feel angry and stuck
and you might also feel you know just a
different kind of a different flavor of
fear and stuck
so helpless is not a feeling of
stuckness oftentimes that's um feeling
of helplessness is very alive the
feeling is very potent and like cayenne
pepper like if you eat cayenne pepper
you don't feel stuck like you you feel
movement so
um so I would say uh though it can
happen where that an overwhelming feel
can make you freeze and there's some
feeling of stuck to that
um so I would say it's not that I would
also say that it's not like learned
helplessness meaning that it like a
limiting belief that thinks oh I can't
change something so
the the interesting thing about
helplessness is the more you allow the
feeling the more
um the more
potent the more virile the more
empowered you actually become in your
emotional world but it's that feeling of
like I cannot do anything about it and
it's not
stuck it's not learned helplessness it's
not being a victim it's not any of that
stuff yeah so homing in on this we're
talking about the feeling the visceral
feeling of helplessness not the story
that I'm helpless or learned
helplessness as the defense mechanism or
you know collapse resignation or
Detachment like oh there's just nothing
I can do yeah no none of that that's
right yeah the visceral feeling the
cayenne pepper yeah and I would say it
is the feeling that when it's it when
that kind of fear comes through and it's
it's most potent it's one of the things
that we want to not feel the most it is
one of the things in like a standard
especially for people who are like super
high capacity
um or people who are become very
self-reliant who feel like you know who
are big change agents on the planet that
feeling is like one of the most scary
feelings
and they'll do everything not to feel it
okay I'll do this I'll do this I'll just
try again I'll be resilient because I do
not want to feel that feeling again I
don't want to have that experience again
so I am going to be self-reliant I am
going to blah blah blah blah work it out
and figure it out and do the thing
and and so
and for them it's often the thing they
want to feel the least it's the thing
that they can't recognize that they feel
the most they have a hard time
recognizing that emotional experience
and it's a thing for self-reliant people
in particular allowing themselves to
feel that level of helplessness
is one of the most potent change agents
just much like if someone's feeling
stuck a lot anger can be one of the most
potent change agents for them or
depressed anger can be one of the most
potent change agents for them for
somebody who's super self-reliant
leaning into helplessness can be one of
the most potent change agents for them
yeah and it's it's really fascinating
here because it's actually like the
first thing
that we feel we come out of the womb
and the first thing that that we are is
helpless yeah I I imagine I don't
remember my moment of birth so I can't
speak from like
episodic memory here but I just imagine
that helplessness is pretty much a
beautiful description of
our very first moments and
it's it's fascinating that we
can find ourselves feeling estranged
from that feeling when it really is at
the core of our entire life
yeah right like small in a big universe
yeah yeah I mean yeah we have no idea
when the bus will hit us if the bus will
hit us we have like there's just so many
ways that you can look at your reality
and recognize your own helplessness
there's some other things that are
really fascinating about it as well
which is
like it is a close cousin to surrender
like helplessness is the recognition
that you're not in control and wanting
to be in control surrender is a
recognition that you're not in control
and being good with it right which is
one of the most relief states that that
you could like a state that creates a
tremendous amount of relief
and so it's a really interesting thing
that they're they're very close cousins
like both of them have the aliveness of
oh I'm I actually can't
control the situation entirely
one is just a severe rejection of that
experience and and one is an acceptance
of that experience
yeah yeah so I love that it's because
the next question I was going to ask
after we started defining it was like
what happens what does helplessness do
as it moves through us what happens when
we feel it all the way through
and one thing you just described there
was this this connection to surrender
yeah which often people talk about
surrender and that is sort of
I guess that can be conceived of as a as
like an end state
but helplessness is actually like the
Gateway
yeah that's right yeah
um
yeah when describe gender is an end
State I would it's more of a verb really
yeah I mean it's often described that
way yeah it often be described as a verb
too yeah and like what is it that you're
doing when you surrender
what are you welcoming yeah yeah I mean
or what are you not doing when you
surrender
um
I think that the yeah so
so my experience is that when folks
fully feel through their helplessness
when I first fully fell through mine
when I've seen like really high-powered
Executives feel through their
helplessness they become a lot more
capable and they become a lot more uh
Serene in their capacity
um
so you know the in in
a great example of this is 12-step
program so 12-step programs they have
the Serenity Prayer which is all about
knowing what you
um can control and not control and
Having the courage to affect the things
you can control and having the piece not
to attempt to control the things that
you
um can't control
and if you think about the way addiction
one of the ways that they the
psychological kind of thing that they do
for addiction one of them is to
understand that you don't have any
control over the substance
like that admitting that admitting that
you are helpless in the face of the
substance
or if you're an allen on the face of the
alcoholic you are helpless in that
and somehow or another weirdly as it
sounds it is saying I am helpless to
this which allows you to not be an
addict to not be controlled by it and
it's the same thing it's like as you
allow that feeling
of helplessness it allows you to see
that there and and experience the fact
that you have
control but it's not quite control
anymore I don't think we have a word for
it in the in the in the human language
it's it's not like you surrender say
okay I don't have any power over alcohol
and therefore now I can control alcohol
it's I don't have any power over alcohol
and I keep on admitting that to myself
and in exchange I am far less likely to
drink
okay so it's a it's a weird it's a weird
because there's no word for what you get
because you don't particularly get
control at the end of it but you see
options you see Choice agency you have
agency that's right that would that
would be good yeah you see the options
in choice
but it doesn't mean that you have
control
yeah
yeah I'm curious to go into this a
little bit from like the head heart gut
perspective as well like where how does
helplessness show up in each of these
yeah that's great helplessness in the
heart is the emotional experience of
like oh [__] there's nothing I can do we
can all close our eyes and go back to an
experience of like the most helpless we
felt you know and when we do this in
workshops you know a lot of people will
go into that place where they were
physically abused or where they got
sexual molestation or they got into a
car accident or like where the whole
world was collapsing on them and there
was nothing that they could do
interestingly also often a precursor to
Awakening is this experience as well
which is like oh like
part of the part of the journey into the
identity
um fading away and seeing like the truth
of Who We Are
is
the recognition that you have no control
that you're absolutely helpless
um to the identity and helpless to the
identity falling apart that you can't
actually protect it
and and again it doesn't give you
control over the identity but it somehow
allows you to have agency with the
identity and so that's the the heart is
that that emotional experience the head
is
literally there's nothing I can do like
that it's the thought process of there's
like nothing I can do and the nervous
system it is an extremely heightened
state of the nervous system
it's like life or dead there's a life or
death when you're when you're feeling
100 helpless it's like around life and
death and whether that's egoic death or
physical death that's where you're gonna
feel it
yeah so so what happens if you if you
speed bump the experience of
helplessness and just skip over it or
right or embrace it like what what makes
it that we if it's such a natural
experience and we're born with it we're
born into it yeah what makes us
find distance from it or skip you know
what makes it not just flow smoothly
naturally it's super [__]
uncomfortable like that confrontation is
super uncomfortable and and we don't
want to like our egos or whatever don't
want to our identity does not want to
experience its death as it turns out
and so we just push it away and what
seems to happen is the the more that
that experience isn't lived with in the
minutia and in the large experiences
what I notice is people are more likely
to be controlling and more likely to
live with like low-level anxiety often
or have a Perpetual low-level anxiety
perpetually feel under attack and so and
and what I notice is and when people
constantly lean into the helplessness
they feel more and more agency
you know there's I don't know now
hundreds of tales but I think the most
common one is Mandela who was like in a
prison
and he was physical abuse and pounding
rocks and being made to be small feel
small he was in a completely helpless
situation
and he by feeling into that helplessness
he was able to have an open heart and to
have agency and tablet he wasn't able to
stop being abused he wasn't able to stop
pounding rocks he didn't have any
control
over his situation but he had this deep
sense of internal agency that came with
it and and that's and that's what it
does it's that similar thing of
of seeing through the
I would say seen through the the the
world of just like surrender does it's
like seen through the material world of
control
and feeling into the
the sense of agency and empowerment that
can't be controlled by the external
world
and if you don't do it then you don't
have that sense of empowerment then
you're constantly chasing power then
you're constantly chasing control then
you're constant and it can all be taken
away from you
yeah yeah nothing could be taken away
from him right like he was like it's all
been taken and here I am still here and
came out of that situation and
was empowered wasn't beaten down yeah
right yeah it sounds like there's a
acceptance component in it as well
there's a way that it
that experiencing your helplessness
feeling your helplessness Burns through
some of the Illusions and fantasies of
control yeah that are
grasp on grasped onto what you're
attached to right so that you can find
and connect to what's actually
here right now yeah and from there
develop agency competence
uh clear seeing
yes the only thing that I will say there
is that what the human mind when it
hears that what it wants to do is it
wants to say okay now I'll accept the
fact that I don't have control
which is just a workaround not to feel
the helplessness it's the same kind of
thing as if somebody was going to say
I'm going to surrender now it's like
surrender is something
that's constantly happening
like
that you it's more of an acknowledgment
than a doing and the doing is the
opposite of it meaning
um for instance
the reality is is that we're all
surrendered to our brains having
thoughts
like we're not controlling the next
thought that we're gonna have there's
Just Thoughts coming and some of those
thoughts are like you're wonderful and
some of those thoughts are your [__]
whatever the thoughts come and you like
you you're not going okay the next
thought I'm gonna have is this and then
the thought after that I'm gonna have is
this they're just right and so we are in
a state of surrender of that
and it's just whether we're recognizing
that
or whether we are trying to do something
about it and if we are trying to do
anything including trying to surrender
then then we don't we're not surrendered
actually and it's the same thing with
with the experience of helplessness it
is allowing the feeling of helplessness
that creates the acceptance it is not
becoming accepting that creates the
creates the freedom and so a lot of
people they just go to okay I'm gonna go
and I'm gonna accept my helplessness and
I'll be all Zen about it but that
doesn't actually get you there
yeah it's another form of management
correct that's right yeah just another
control pattern in in the avoidance of
the feeling of the helplessness yeah a
more subtle one
in many ways a better one than other
ones but still yes
yeah yeah
so
what are some other ways that this might
show up for people
we've talked about like high-powered
execs we've talked about you know
teaching somebody to do something
dangerous that you love parents so what
I would say is that yeah I would say
that
the important thing is that there's a
little bit of helplessness in every one
of our anxieties and every one of our
fears
like there is actually truly something
helpless so if if we are going into a
meeting and we want people to think
we're great or think our presentations
greater get agreement or whatever we do
not have full control over that
there is a part of that that's helpless
if you go into that helplessness and
feel that helplessness
it frees you
quicker than any other way of freeing
yourself from Fear
and again it's not freeing yourself like
it goes away you know it's not like it
frees Yourself by going through and so
it's if you do it to manage your fear
then it won't work if you do it as a way
to fall in love with your fear it will
work
and so
so what what's interesting to me is
other examples are any place where
you're anxious so if you're like oh wow
I'm anxious that my girlfriend
won't love me if I say X Y and Z it
means there's some part of it that
you're helpless about like you cannot
control
your girlfriend's love for you you just
can't do it
and so or I am really scared that the
car is going to break down there's some
way in which you are completely helpless
to whether that car breaks down or not
and that acceptance of that so so it's
in every one of our fears and I think
knowing that and going into that is is
incredibly important as far as like full
100 cayenne pepper helplessness
um
oftentimes if you have been trying I
remember had a really deep experience of
it when I had just given everything I
could to this company I cared so much
about it it was doing so much good in
the world
and I had to close the company and that
feeling of just like oh [__] like my
whole world collapsing everything I
think I am collapsing
and
how much freedom and how much
spaciousness I had afterwards surprised
me like I remember like it was literally
like two days I went right into the
helplessness and it was it was a bumpy
two days but within two days I was like
oh wow I just felt so much freedom and
so much more capable of investing so
many Lessons Learned
whereas if I would have beat myself up
what did I do wrong how did I who could
I what I should have should have would
have could have I shouldn't have did it
if I would have gone through that route
the lessons would not even be half as
potent or half as varied
so but I've seen people do this when
they're like their whole world collapses
it's like the divorce the kids leave the
business collapses they have that deep
feeling of helplessness then too
so how do we recognize and work with our
helplessness first of all like notice
where it is where we're avoiding it
because many places we've probably
avoided it so well that we're not
consciously aware that it's there and
then once we find it
uh how do we work with helplessness in
such a way that we don't go into any of
the backwaters like the the story of the
helplessness or the collapse around it
or yeah acceptance as a subtle control
mechanism yeah
so ways to find it are pretty simple
look for the places where you're most
controlling would be a great place
um where you have that kind of
controlling thing that you know creates
a rigidity and an um disruption in your
system
is a great way to find it another way to
find it is like I said like Whatever
anxiety you have look for the place that
has the most cayenne pepper in it like
somatically feel where's the thing
that's most scary here
um
that's another way I'd say another way
is to
um
what's interesting is you don't
particularly need to feel it in every
situation if you start feeling it in any
situation you can find it relaxes in
other situations just like if I move
anger then anger moves more easily with
like less
um violence less
friction to the system similarly if you
move the helplessness and some of the
key areas like you can go into your
memory and just go oh when did I feel
most helpless and you start moving those
experiences then it kind of changes the
way that it moves through you and the
rest of your life so you don't really
have to find it in every location you
can just once you've found it three four
five six seven times and you've moved it
it starts moving differently in your
system and then you'll recognize it far
more easily so that's how to identify it
and just and to start the movement and
the and the movement is literally to
allow your body to have the fear release
of shaking and
um
and going to worst case scenarios and
feeling all the experiences of that
it is the recognition that you're not in
control and and to go into either the
scenarios where you lose if it hasn't
happened yet or where you've lost so to
speak where
you've suffered that loss in some way or
you suffered that trauma that in some
way
really important when you're doing this
that you have a lot of support around
you
um a person who can be with you is
really great
um a person can be with you and not be
in fear who understands that they're
there to be like a grounded support is a
really really useful thing
um for that we would never do a release
like that in uh
in a in a group unless there is like a
very strong container of love and
support
so I think that's really important to be
able to do that
um
and that prevents a lot of the
backwaters what can happen is if
somebody moves a lot of helplessness but
they're alone and they get caught in the
past where they felt it and they can't
see the reality of today their nervous
system gets overwhelmed
um then it can be counterproductive for
sure
right which was going to be my next
question here is for listeners who are
just hearing this episode and they want
to explore
working with their helplessness allowing
it what are what's what's a
what's one way that you would suggest
that they could play with that
in a way that's not likely to lead them
into
opening up too much and getting stuck in
it yeah and uh easy gentle approach is
the
um emotional inquiry that we talked
about I think it was on the last episode
but at some point and we can put a link
to that audio
um down there and
um yeah so that would be a great way to
just like be able to like put your feet
in the water and and feel it and and
that is not having a full release of it
it is
being deeply inquisitive and full of
wonder about the somatic experience of
it
but it's it's it's allowing it to be in
your body but not it it will make sure
that your body doesn't get
overwhelmed disregulated
yeah that's a that's a good way
um and the other way is just you know
take five seconds with any time you're
feeling anxiety go to the spicy part of
it take five seconds and just be like oh
what's the really scary thing here and
go right into that just for five seconds
and then go about your day that's a
really good way to start exploring it
somatically go into it yeah
yeah somatically that reminds me of sort
of the
practice where people
go through and they visualize everything
they're afraid of all the way through
their death and then all the way through
beyond their death yeah and
there's a way to do that as like the
story like visualize the thing I'm
afraid of my company falling apart my
relationship falling apart my kids
getting on heroin yeah whatever those
might be but then there's also the the
underlying feeling like if I visualize
it and put myself
in that position what does it feel like
we can also do that backwards through
our lives too yes and then do the
emotional inquiry with what comes up
there yeah the same thing can be found
in many Traditions Roman tradition and
the
and the the
Samurai tradition they all had this
experience of like visualizing your
death emotionally in parts and you can
visualize any negative thing I also
recommend
doing the opposite too which is
like visualizing the whole thing working
out perfectly well and having all those
experiences because sometimes those are
the more scary things the ego the ego
dies either way like if if you
if the worst thing happens the ego has
to
shift
you know the self-identity has to shift
and if everything goes incredibly
beautifully the self-identity has to
shift so both of them can be really
useful right right and that that brings
up a very important Point here which is
how would
what is the difference between doing
this practice and catastrophizing which
many people will do all the time and
they're like oh this isn't going to go
well oh that's going to go to [__] oh no
and
yeah one is in the head one is in the
head and one is in the body one is a
thought process that's uh created by an
emotional state and the other one is an
uh is is fully deeply feeling the
emotional state all the way through so
even if you catastrophize oh my God
everything could blow up you'll notice
just if you hear even the way I said it
you could hear my whole body thing oh my
God which means I'm holding back the
emotion so if you can even say
oh my God everything is going to blow up
and you allow yourself to feel the whole
thing that can be incredibly healing
so the catastrophizing that's dangerous
or creates less Freedom more rigidity is
the one where you don't feel it where
you just yeah oh my God it's gonna be
horrible and then that's what makes it
Loop right yeah you just keep looping in
it because there's and there's there's a
reason why those thoughts are coming up
because your body wants to process this
yes exactly and so it's going to keep
knocking on your door until you actually
feel it so if you're just letting
yourself have the thought but
constricting around the feeling then
it's going to continue correct and I
also like the component of like remember
to do this on the flip side too on all
the positive things there's a there's an
emotional yoga here of expanding the
range of motion of how much you can be
with how much you can experience
from the range of helplessness to
everything's going great
all the way in between so then whatever
actually does happen even in the in the
in those little moments like let's say
you're giving a speech yeah and between
each word there's
some amount of rigidity some amounts of
self-censoring some amount of
management and all of that can just
relax if you feel capable and welcoming
of the full range of the experience yeah
then you'll just have that much more
freedom and I think the key there is the
welcoming I know I've said it once but
it's so important I want to say it again
which is if you do all this stuff to
control your experience to control the
emotions it will not work it it has to
be a like welcoming like I can't wait to
feel helpless again the freedom is in is
not I don't feel helpless anymore the
freedom is in I can't wait to feel
helpless again
uh-huh
great yeah I'd love to also ask about
how this works in a team that's a great
question
and there's so many ways to think about
that question there's like what happens
when an entire team feels helpless what
happens when one person and team
feels helpless what happens in a team
where nobody allows their helpless
feelings those are all different things
that occur inside of a team typically
if there is something that a team is not
confronting if they're in denial about
something in the business or but in
their objective one person will start
feeling more helpless and they'll start
getting rejected by the rest of the team
and then so one person's holding the
helplessness for the team correct
consolidates in that person in that
direction not feeling it yeah and then
they reject that person that person goes
away and then a new person in the team
starts holding it so that's a that's
that's what usually happens with one
person if the entire team feels helpless
and and I'm assuming when when we say
that that they're not fully feeling
helpless if the whole team's just like
oh my gosh this is never gonna work and
they're not processing that you like
divest just get get out
um because it it that becomes that
learned helplessness that becomes that
collapse that becomes
um burnout
like if I if I'm talking to somebody who
is burnt out and not the burnt out like
because I've just been working really
hard for a long time I need a break but
the burnt out of like the psychological
burnout
it is because they are
not in that Serenity Prayer there that
they're
using anxiety to motivate themselves
over time because they feel responsible
or for many dozens of reasons and so
typically then that that's going to lead
to some sort of a burnout if it's if
it's like being used as like I won't
feel helpless and therefore I'm going to
motivate myself there's there's a
burnout that's going to occur for those
people it's going to be typically pretty
bad in last year's
um so that's that's another one if
a team can process
is not scared of the feeling of
helplessness then they feel it and then
they pivot then they feel it and then
they pivot and and there's a lot more
enjoyment and movement in the team
and they'll they they realize and they
will confront things easily happily bad
difficult things easily and happily
because that they know that by
confronting it and feeling the
helplessness they'll move into
a truth and a better way to go very
quickly so it's like oh cool I get to
feel hopeless because I know the other
side of that I'm going to have a clear
vision of how to move forward that's
going to work better
yeah beautiful and I imagine that also
applies to a family in many of the same
ways
yeah yeah
there was this moment that I had with
Esme recently Esme was going through
something with her boyfriend and
at some point I was like
that's my fault
I'm like this is the way I raised you
and because I raised you this way it's
creating this kerfuffle in your
relationship
and I'm really sorry
for that and in that moment there was a
helplessness that both of us felt like
like it's done I wish I had I hadn't
done it that way but I had done it that
way and she was like it's done and
I love you and there's nothing like
there's nothing but this that can be
done about it
and so we just sat there and looked at
each other and then we cried for a bit
then she told me you know she felt
really fortunate
that we could have that moment together
and that was the end of it that was the
end of the process and oddly just that
in itself relieved the pattern in her so
the pattern
went away just in that like
acknowledgment and and I remember
thinking to myself
how when I was younger and I was
parenting her I was so scared of [__]
her up
and I thought to myself man if I if I
[__] her up a hundred different ways
and each one led to A Moment Like This
totally [__] worth it
I can imagine the puckering I I don't
have a kid but I can imagine the
puckering I'd feel if I went to if I was
just like oh I'm sorry I I raised you
this way and now you're wrong it's sort
of the way that I'd be afraid of that
coming off
peace sorry I wasn't saying he was wrong
I I what I was saying yeah
I could see that being the fear of
acknowledging it oh yeah yeah there was
definitely that moment of oh and it was
like you're in pain like this because I
I I was not confident I wasn't fully
confident as a parent that's me
and I was scared of X Y and Z and so I
did a b and c
so there's and I remember that moment
where we just looked at each other and
we were just like helpless in it
and in tears and then
so
that's like a really great way of just
feeling through that
yeah wow that's a really great way of
also closing this beautiful episode on
helplessness
pleasure as always Brett it's good to be
with you you too and thank you everybody
for listening don't forget to send us
any comments or questions you can find
us at Art of accomplishment.com or on
Twitter at Art of a comp take care all
right